>> Brian Holt: We're gonna add one
more thing here which is gonna be
test:coverage.
And we're gonna do again jest
--silent --coverage.
There's another library that
jest incorporates inside of
it called Istanbul
>> Brian Holt: What Istanbul does code
coverage reports for you.
Which is it should be familiar to many
of your developers out there, but
if you are not familiar with it it's going
to tell you how much of your code is
covered by tests.
So I think the best way to show is
just to show you someone run mpm run
test:coverage.
>> Brian Holt: And you can see here
these all have pretty bad coverage this
is why they're in red.
Of all the files that you have imported
into test, which keep in mind,
I have a lot of other
files that I haven't.
This is just the ones
that are being imported.
Only 22% of them are covered by state or
22% of statements are covered by tests.
That's really low.
Anything under 80 is
probably not sufficient.
7% of branches, 21% of functions, but
I still did pass all my tests, right?
>> Speaker 2: What's a branch?
>> Brian Holt: A branch can be like
you covered the if statement but
you didn't cover the L statements.
All right, so actually let's show you
even a step further, if you hit ls now.
You can see I have this
coverage directory.
You should ignore this first of all.
This is generated by Istanbul.
I'm going to go into coverage and
it will give you a bunch of stats and
stuff like that.
You can feed this in through a JSon file,
but
the interesting one here is
the lcov-report directory.
So if you go into there,
and I say open index.html,
this is just going to open it
in my default web browser.
In my case, I'm in Mac so this works.
This doesn't work in Linux and
I don't think in PowerShell either.
But just, whatever the case,
open this index.html file in a browser and
you'll get a nice
generated report of this.
And I can actually click
in the details and
I can see all this stuff you
didn't cover with tests.
You didn't cover the error case.
You didn't render all this stuff.
None of this works, right?
So you can see here,
this loading thing was covered, right?
We did a good job of covering that, but
we didn't cover the rest of this so
that's why we get pretty
bad code coverage.
But that's interesting we didn't
actually test Modal.js did we, right?
We didn't write that, but if you remember,
that's imported into the details page.
So if I go into here as well,
>> Brian Holt: Notice this stuff is
all ran once.
You can see that by the 1 x right there.
That's probably pretty hard to see.
So you can see this was run once, but
nothing inside of Modal was ever
actually tested because our test and
actually instantiate modal,
did render Modal or do anything like that.
So we have the guarantee
that if I import Modal,
it's not going to throw an error.
But we're not assured of
anything more than that.
>> Brian Holt: So
this is really useful as well.
Another cool part of jest and
Istanbul in general.
>> Brian Holt: And the nice thing
is I didn't have to set this up.
If you've ever had to set up
Istanbul by hand it's a pain.
So it's really nice that jest
just has this built into it.
So before you like, I'm gonna do this,
I'm gonna get 100% test coverage and
it's gonna make me look great.
I want you to warn you of
the false god of test coverage.
People think that if you
have 100% test coverage,
that means my repo is well-tested.
Well, as you saw with Modal.js,
I had 16% test coverage of Modal.js
with a garbage test, right?
It told me absolutely nothing other
than this didn't throw an error.
There's no syntax errors.
That's about all I got from Modal.js.
It's possible to have absolutely
garbage test and 100% test coverage.
So what you should use test coverage for
is that I'm not covering less
of my code with test, right?
It's kind of a relative thing,
so relatively to previously,
I'm maintaining how much test I have,
the goal is not a 100% test coverage,
the goal is good tests, right?
The goal is having,
if I launch new code inter production,
I'm not going to crash, right?
That's what test is gonna help you do, and
a 100% test covers doesn't mean that,
okay?
So I rather have 50% test
coverage with great test,
then a 100% test coverage
with garbage test.